Vgent: Graph-based Retrieval-Reasoning-Augmented
Generation For Long Video Understanding
Xiaoqian Shen1, Wenxuan Zhang1, Jun Chen1,2, Mohamed Elhoseiny1
1King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, 2Meta AI
{xiaoqian.shen,wenxuan.zhang,jun.chen,mohamed.elhoseiny}@kaust.edu.sa
Abstract
Understanding and reasoning over long videos pose significant challenges for large
video language models (LVLMs) due to the difficulty in processing intensive video
tokens beyond context window and retaining long-term sequential information.
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has demonstrated effectiveness in process-
ing long context for Large Language Models (LLMs); however, applying RAG to
long video faces challenges such as disrupted temporal dependencies and inclusion
of irrelevant information that can hinder accurate reasoning. To address these limi-
tations, we propose Vgent, a novelgraph-based retrieval-reasoning-augmented
generation frameworkto enhance LVLMs for long video understanding. Our
approach introduces two key innovations: (i) It represents videos by structured
graphs with semantic relationships across video clips preserved to improve re-
trieval effectiveness. (ii) It introduces an intermediate reasoning step to mitigate
the reasoning limitation of LVLMs, which leverages structured verification to
reduce retrieval noise and facilitate the explicit aggregation of relevant informa-
tion across clips, resulting in more accurate and context-aware responses. We
comprehensively evaluate our framework with various open-source LVLMs on
three long-video understanding benchmarks. Our approach yielded an overall
performance improvement of 3.0%∼5.4% over base models on MLVU, and
outperformed state-of-the-art video RAG methods by 8.6%. Our code is publicly
available athttps://xiaoqian-shen.github.io/Vgent.
1 Introduction
Multi-Modal Large Language Models (MLLMs) [6, 22, 30, 39, 40, 58] have demonstrated remarkable
visual understanding and reasoning capabilities, paving the way for advancements in video tasks.
Recently, numerous studies have showcased impressive progress in building Large Video Language
Models (LVLMs) for video understanding [9, 7, 24, 35, 55]. Moreover, long-video understanding is
particularly crucial for applications in web content, life-logging, and streaming media, where intricate
narratives and evolving contexts span extended durations.
However, processing and reasoning over long-context videos remain a formidable challenge for
existing LVLMs, as representing video frames requires an extensive number of tokens—for example,
a 30-minute video can exceed 200K tokens [4, 22], beyond most models’ context limits. To handle
longer videos, existing methods resort to sparse frame sampling [55, 22] or token compression [43],
but these approaches inevitably lead to visual information loss, weakening fine-grained temporal
understanding and coherent reasoning.
Recent studies [1, 2, 12, 34, 52, 53] utilize Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [21] to enhance
long-form video understanding by retrieving relevant information. However, they encounter certain
limitations. First, some works segment lengthy videos into shorter clips, treating each as an individual
document for retrieval [ 2], which disrupts the continuity of entities and temporal dependencies,
39th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2025).
arXiv:2510.14032v1  [cs.CV]  15 Oct 2025
0123 N
Clip1Clip2Clip3Clip4...ClipN
Large Video Language ModelQuery
Video Graph Construction
ReasoningFiltered Video Clips
... Graph-based RetrievalStructured Refinement
Where was the plate before I putting a bread slice on it?A. cabinetB. refrigerator C. sink D. floor
Retrieval-Reasoning Augmented Generation
02356
256
02356
The plate was initially in the sink, then possibly moved to the cabinet before the bread was placed on it.
Figure 1:Overview of our graph-based retrieval-reasoning-augmented generation framework.
Each video clip is represented as a node within a graph, interconnected through shared entities. This
graph representation enables effective retrieval of relevant clips based on node connections, followed
by an intermediate reasoning step to refine retrievals and aggregate over multimodal context for
accurate generation.
leading to retrieval inaccuracies. Second, some methods [ 47, 34] rely on proprietary LLMs like
GPT-4 [37] for multi-turn interactions, planning, and reasoning, making them costly and less flexible.
Lastly, several approaches [47, 33] extract information from sparse key frames, neglecting temporal
coherence in long videos.
Graph representation for enhanced retrieval: To address the limitation of existing RAG methods,
we propose a structured graph-based representation, where video clips are modeled as nodes inter-
connected by recurring subjects or scenes. This graph representation not only enables effectively
retrieving nodes associated with specific entities, but also facilitates capturing temporal dependencies
spanning over lengthy videos. Another advantage is that the graph construction is performed offline
and is query-independent. Once the graph is built, it can be reused for multiple questions on the same
video, allowing retrieval to operate directly on the graph without reprocessing the video. However,
feeding all retrieved clips into LLMs can cause information overload, where key details are diluted
by irrelevant content [14]. In videos, the issue is further amplified, as each frame consumes hundreds
of tokens, with irrelevant information overshadowing the critical content.
Structured post-retrieval reasoning: To address the aforementioned issue and fully harness the
benefits from our GraphRAG, we introduce the structured reasoning step in the post-retrieval stage.
Instead of generating answers directly from the retrieved clips, it decomposes the question and
systematically verifies the relevance of each clip. As shown in Figure 1, this process refines the
retrieved set by identifying clips that mention critical elements—such as the plate, sink, cabinet, and
bread—and then aggregates information across them for temporal reasoning (e.g., the plate moving
from the sink to the cabinet). This process mitigates noise, facilitates information aggregation across
refined clips, and thus creates a more reliable pathway for producing accurate responses.
We evaluate our framework upon seven different LVLMs with sizes ranging from 2B to 7B across three
long-video benchmarks: MLVU [57], VideoMME [13] and LongVideoBench [50]. Experimental
results demonstrate that our framework consistently improves the performance of existing LVLMs by
3.0%–5.4%. We further show that our framework surpasses existing RAG-based video understanding
works by 8.6%.
Contribution.Our contribution is summarized as follows:
• We developed a novelgraph-based RAGframework for long-video understanding, where
video clips are represented as nodes within a graph, interconnected through shared enti-
ties, thereby preserving semantic relationships and temporal dependencies across clips,
facilitating more effective retrieval.
• We proposestructured reasoningto tackle the limited reasoning ability of LVLMs, which can
be distracted by hard negative retrieved samples. Our approach introduces an intermediate
reasoning step for retrieval verification and aggregates information across verified clips to
enhance generation accuracy.
2
• Our graph-based retrieval-reasoning-augmented framework demonstrates 3.0%–5.4% im-
provements over various LVLMs ranging from 2B to 7B and surpasses existing RAG-based
video understanding works by 8.6% in long-video understanding tasks.
2 Related Work
2.1 Large Video Language Models
Multimodal large language models (MLLMs) [ 6, 58, 31, 30, 45] have demonstrated remarkable
progress in vision-language tasks. Recent advancements have further extended their capabilities to
video understanding tasks [ 2, 9, 24, 25, 28, 32]. Large Video Language Models (LVLMs) process
videos by extracting and encoding frames, and then rearranging them into final video representations.
Some approaches [ 24, 25, 9] leverage the Q-Former module from BLIP-2 [23] to integrate visual and
textual features, while others [ 2, 28, 32] directly concatenate frame features. However, these models
struggle with processing hour-long videos in a single pass as the number of video tokens exceeds their
training context size. To address these limitations, most existing works train on sparsely sampled
frames no matter how long the video is [ 24, 2, 9, 55, 22], while others try to handle long videos
by token pooling [35, 27, 44], token compression [43], or memory aggregation [19]. However, they
struggle to effectively capture and reason about temporal dependencies spanning hour-long videos.
2.2 Agent-based Video Understanding
A dominant trend in long-context video question-answering involves equipping Large Language
Models (LLMs) with tools that heavily rely on proprietary models to process queries and handle video
clips. MM-VID [29] uses a video-to-script generation with GPT-4V [37] to transcribe multimodal
elements into a long textual script. VideoAgent [47] integrates diverse foundation models through a
unified memory architecture. DrVideo [34], VideoTree [49], VideoAgent [12] and OmAgent [53]
dynamically invoke tools to enhance query processing and accuracy. Such methods consequently
suffer from high operational costs and a critical reliance on external, closed-source systems, limiting
their adaptability. In contrast, our work targets the development of a self-contained pipeline designed
for flexible deployment with open-source LVLMs.
2.3 Video Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) enhances large language models (LLMs) by retrieving
relevant information to improve long context memory, factual accuracy, and reduce hallucinations.
The process involves three stages: (i) indexing, which organizes raw data into a knowledge base;
(ii) retrieval, which searches for relevant information based on user queries; and (iii) generation,
where the model takes the retrieved context to generate the final response. Recent advancements
of RAG in LLM mainly follow two directions, i.e. chunk-based methods [ 15, 5] and graph based
methods [11, 17, 26, 18], both of which have been applied in video understanding tasks. Goldfish [3]
chunks long videos into shorter clips, processes each clip independently, and retrieves the most
relevant clip in response to user queries. Wang et al. [48] applied graph structures for action
recognition in short clips and Hussein et al. [20], Luo et al. [33] employ scene graphs for video
understanding. However, constructing graphs for long videos and effectively retrieving information
from the noisy and complex graph remains a challenge. Only recently, a concurrent work [ 42]
constructs graphs for long-context video understanding, but they heavily relies on external proprietary
LLM for graph construction, while graph-based video RAG with open-sourced LVLM itself remains
unexplored, which our work aims to address.
3 Method
We introduce a novel, training-free framework, Vgent, for long-context video understanding. Un-
like conventional Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), our pipeline proposes agraph-based
retrieval-reasoning-augmented generationparadigm, specifically designed to address complex
video scenarios with improved contextual comprehension and structured reasoning. As illustrated
in Figure 2, our proposed pipeline contains four stages: (1) Offline video graph construction (Sec-
tion 3.1): Builds a video graph offline by extracting knowledge from long videos. (2) Graph-based
3
Offline Graph Construction
Video ClipEntities (                                 )             
LVLM
Question: Please identify the option that corresponds to the order of events as they occur in the video. [Zumba, clean and jerk, milking cow, playing trombone]
LVLM
QueryKeywords ExtractionStrutured Query Refinement
Answer: milking cow --> zumba --> clean and jerk --> playing trombone
[“zumba”, “clean”, “milking cow”, “playing trombone”]
Retrieval-Reasoning Augmented Generation
…
Entity Merging and Node Connection
Q1: Is ‘zumba’ shown in the video?...Q4: Is ‘trombone’ shown in the video?4351113
🤔Subtitles
[{“entity”: “”, “description”: “”},...{“entity”: “”, “description”: “”}]
Graph-basedClip RetrievalClipQ1Q2Q3Q43451113
Refined Clips431113
Milking cow is shown first, followed by zumba, then clean, and finally playing trombone.
Information Aggregation
Figure 2: Pipeline ofVgent, a novel framework for long-context video understanding in the proposed
graph-based retrieval-reasoning-augmented generation paradigm. It consists of four key stages: (1)
Offline video graph construction (Section 3.1): Builds a video graph by extracting knowledge from
long videos. (2) Graph-based retrieval (Section 3.2): Retrieves relevant clips based on keywords
extracted from the user query. (3) Structured reasoning (Section 3.3): Refines clips using structured
queries and aggregates information. (4) Multimodal augmented generation (Section 3.4): Combines
refined clips and reasoning results to generate the final response.
retrieval (Section 3.2): Retrieves relevant video clips from graph based on the user query. (3) Struc-
tured Reasoning (Section 3.3): Refines the retrieved clips using structured queries and aggregates
information across the filtered clips. (4) Multimodal Augmented Generation (Section 3.4): Combines
refined clips and intermediate reasoning results to generate the final response.
3.1 Video Graph Construction
To better capture the complex relationships and dependencies in long-context videos, we propose
a graph-based representation to store video content and enhance semantic connections. Specif-
ically, given a video V with F frames, we first partition it into a sequence of short video clips
{V1, V2, . . . , V⌈ F
K ⌉}, where each video clip Vi consists of K frames. We then dynamically construct
the graph by a series of structured steps, as detailed below.
Visual Entity Extraction.For each video clip, we leverage the LVLM to extract the key semantic
entities (i.e., the primary subjects, actions, or scenes) from both the spoken content (subtitles) Ci and
video clipV i.
{(ei
1, ti
1),(e i
2, ti
2), ...} ←LVLM(C i, Vi),(1)
where the set of entity is denoted as Ei ={e 1
i , e2
i , . . .} and its corresponding description set is
denoted as Ti ={t 1
i , t2
i , . . .}. In this step, the LVLM captures subjects, actions, and scene dynamics,
seamlessly linking visual entities with spoken content to extract meaningful knowledge. Please refer
to Appendix B.1 for illustrative examples.
Graph Construction.Based on extracted information, we construct a video knowledge graph
G= (V,E) , where V denotes the nodes set representing video clips, and edges in E represents
the connectivity between nodes. Additionally, we define a global set of unique prototype entities
U={u∈E i, i= 1, . . . ,⌈ F
K ⌉} that spans across all nodes. As more video clips are processed, we
will dynamically add newly extracted unique entity u to the set or link it to an existing entity. We
definet u as the description of each entityu∈ U.
4
Entity Merging and Node Connection.Since LVLMs process video clips independently, it is
essential to identify and unify semantically equivalent entities across clips. Given a newly extracted
entity-description pair (ej
i , tj
i ) from video clip Vi, we determine whether it belongs to an existing
entity in the global entity set U. Specifically, we compute the similarity score between the textual
descriptions ti
j and descriptions of entities in U based on their respective text embeddings. If the
similarity score > τ , the entity ei
j is considered semantically equivalent to an existing entity and
these two are merged into a single entity representation. Otherwise, ei
j is treated as a distinct entity
and added toU. This process is formulated as follows:
s∗ = max
u∈U
sim(ti
j, t), u ∗ = arg max
u∈U
sim(ti
j, tu), e i
j →
u∗,ifs ∗ ≥τ
U ← U ∪ {e i
j},otherwise (2)
Once entity is merged, we then build edges from the node vi associated with the video clip Vi to all
the nodes that have the same entityu ∗, denoted asV (u∗).
E ← E ∪ {(v i, v)|v∈ V (u∗)}(3)
As new video clips are processed, the graph is dynamically updated such that nodes containing the
same entity are connected, which preserves semantic relationships and contextual dependencies. This
forms a structured representation that facilitates effective video retrieval in subsequent processing
stages.
3.2 Graph-based Retrieval
Keywords Extraction.Direct retrieval based on the original query may not provide sufficient
context, especially when reasoning across multiple temporal clips is required. To address this,
we extract keywords from the query for effective retrieval. Specifically, we prompt the LVLM to
identify key semantic elements, denoted as K, from the query Q. The detailed prompt is provided in
Appendix B.2.
Graph-based Clip Retrieval.Next, we leverage these extracted keywords for graph-based retrieval.
Specifically, for each keyword k∈ K and each entity u∈ U , we compute a similarity score
sim(k, tu) to determine whether the entity matches the keyword. If sim(k, tu)> θ , we include all
nodes associated with entityuas the target retrieval node setR:
R=
[
u∈U,k∈K
{v∈ V |u∈ U(v), sim(k, t u)> θ}(4)
After obtaining the retrieval node set R, we refine the results by re-ranking the nodes based on
the similarity between the query’s keywords and the extracted information of each node, including
entities, corresponding textual descriptions, and subtitles if available. Finally, we select the Top-N
nodes with the highest average similarity scores across all associated information of each video clip.
3.3 Structured Reasoning
Feeding all relevant clips directly into LLMs can lead to information overload, diluting the focus
on key details with irrelevant content [ 14]. Our empirical analysis also reveals that in roughly
40% of failure cases, the correct clip is successfully retrieved, yet the model still generates incorrect
responses—even though it can answer correctly when provided with that clip alone. We then introduce
structured reasoning in the post-retrieval stage that refines the retrieved clips and aggregates useful
information towards final generation.
Structured Query Refinement.We introduce the divide-and-conquer strategy to refine the retrieval
through structured query verification. Specifically, we prompt the LVLM to generate structured
subqueries, denoted as Q, based on the original query Q and extracted keywords K. These subqueries
focus on verifying the presence of relevant entities or quantifying their occurrences, whose answers
are expected to be binary (yes/no) or numerical value. Please refer to Appendix B.3 for the detailed
prompt and Figure 3 for an example of generated subqueries.
5
After generating the subqueries, we process the Top- N retrieved video clips using the LVLM,
producing either binary (yes/no) or numerical responses for each subquery. As shown in Figure 2,
this structured verification systematically assesses the relevance of each clip to the original query,
filtering out irrelevant clips that were wrongly retrieved based on semantic embedding similarity.
Denoting 1 toyesand 0 tonoin binary questions, this refined clip setR ′ can be formulated as:
R′ ={v i ∈ R | ∃q j ∈ Q, f(v i, qj)>0}(5)
where f(v i, qj) denotes the response of retrieved clip vi to subquery qj. We keep at most r clips after
refinement. This refinement step ensures that only video clips satisfying the structured queries are
retained, effectively eliminating hard negatives from the initial retrieval.
Information Aggregation.As shown in Figure 2, we then let LVLM aggregate and summarize
all useful information from structured queries and their corresponding results for each video clip,
providing an enriched auxiliary context that enhances the final inference.
3.4 Multimodal Augmented Generation.
We incorporate both the intermediate reasoning results and the filtered video clips as multimodal
context inputs to the LVLM for the final response. This enriched input allows the model to leverage
both structured reasoning and relevant visual information, enabling it to generate a more accurate and
contextually grounded final response to the original question.
4 Experiments
4.1 Experimental Setups
Baselines.We apply our framework Vgent on open-sourced LVLMs including InternVL2.5 [ 8],
Qwen2 [46], Qwen2.5-VL [4], LongVU [43] and LLaV A-Video [56] as base video understanding
model. We further compare Vgent against state-of-the-art RAG baselines as follows:NaïveRAG[ 3],
Video-RAG[ 33], andproprietary LLM-based methodsincluding VideoAgent [ 47], LLoVi [52],
DrVideo [34] and VideoTree [49]. More details can be found in Appendix A.3.
Benchmarks.We evaluate the performances of each model across three long-video benchmarks.
Video-MME [13] is a widely used benchmark designed to evaluate LVLMs’ capability to process
detailed, real-world videos. It comprises three subsets categorized by video length, ranging from 11
seconds to 1 hour. MLVU [57] is a long-video understanding benchmark with videos ranging from 3
minutes to 2 hours, with an average length of about 12 minutes. LongVideoBench (LVB) [50] focuses
on referred reasoning tasks that require models to analyze long frame sequences. These questions
depend on extensive temporal context and cannot be effectively addressed using a single frame or a
small set of sparsely sampled frames.
Implementation Details.During the offline video graph construction, we sample videos at
1.0 FPS, segmenting the long video into clips, each containing K= 64 frames. We use the
BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5 [51] embedding for similarity calculation. The entity merging threshold
is set to τ= 0.7 . In the online retrieval stage, we use BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5 to retrieve the top
N= 20 clips based on extracted keywords (maximum to 20 to discard low-relevance, with a similarity
threshold θ= 0.5 ). After structured query refinement, we retain a maximum of r= 5 clips. Thresh-
olds are set as the same for all three benchmarks, with hyper-parameter selection details provided
in the supplementary. For MLVU [57], we extract spoken content using openai/whisper-large,
while for VideoMME [13] and LongVideoBench [50], we use the provided subtitles from benchmark.
All experiments are conducted on A100 80G GPUs.
4.2 Main Results
Comparison with LVLMs.In Table 1 and 6, we present the performance of our proposed
Vgent framework on the MLVU [ 57] benchmark, where we consistently observe substantial im-
provements across all models. Specifically, our framework enhances LongVU [ 43] by 5.4% and
boosts Qwen2.5VL [4] (7B) by 3.3%. Notably, when applied to Qwen2.5VL (3B), Vgent achieves
6
Table 1:Performance comparison with LVLMs.Vgent consistently improves all models on
MLVU [57], enhancing LongVU by 5.4% and Qwen2.5VL (7B) by 3.3%. Notably, Vgent achieves
70.4% accuracy on Qwen2.5VL (3B), surpassing its 7B counterpart and improving the base model
by 4.2%. Vgent outperforms base models across all video lengths on VideoMME [ 13] achieving
improvement of 3.2% overall.
Models Size MLVU VideoMME LVBw/o sub. w/ sub.
Proprietary LVLMs
Gemini 1.5 Pro [16] - - 75.0 81.3 64.0
GPT-4o [38] - 64.6 71.9 77.2 66.7
Open-Source LVLMs
InternVL2.5 [8] 2B 56.7 49.5 55.2 52.0
InternVL2.5 + Vgent (Ours) 2B 61.1 +4.4 50.9 +1.4 56.8 +1.6 54.8 +2.8
Qwen2.5-VL [4] 3B 66.2 61.4 67.6 54.2
Qwen2.5-VL + Vgent (Ours) 3B 70.4 +4.2 63.0 +1.6 69.6 +2.0 57.8 +3.6
LongVU [54] 7B 65.4 55.2 60.9 50.2
LongVU + Vgent (Ours) 7B 70.8 +5.4 57.3 +2.1 63.7 +2.8 52.7 +2.5
Qwen2-VL [46] 7B 65.7 62.7 68.1 55.6
Qwen2-VL + Vgent (Ours) 7B 70.3 +4.6 63.5 +0.8 70.1 +2.0 58.4 +2.8
LLaV A-Video [56] 7B 69.5 64.3 69.2 59.5
LLaV A-Video + Vgent (Ours) 7B 72.5 +3.0 66.7 +2.4 71.1 +1.9 62.4 +2.9
Qwen2.5-VL [4] 7B 68.8 65.1 71.1 56.0
Qwen2.5-VL + Vgent (Ours) 7B 72.1 +3.3 68.9 +3.8 74.3 +3.2 59.7 +3.7
an accuracy of 70.4%, surpassing its larger 7B counterpart and improving the base model by 4.2%.
This result underscores the effectiveness of our approach in bridging the performance gap between
small models and their larger counterparts. At the category level (Table 6), our framework notably
improves Count and Order tasks, which demand event-level understanding and multi-clips reasoning.
In Table 1, we showcase the results of Vgent on the VideoMME [13] benchmark, where it consistently
outperforms base models across all video lengths, achieving an average performance gain of 4.2%.
Notably, our framework excels in long-video scenarios, surpassing the best baseline by 5.4%. These
findings highlight the strength of our structured graph-based retrieval and reasoning approach,
demonstrating its ability to enhance long-video comprehension by effectively capturing cross-segment
dependencies and refining information retrieval for improved reasoning and final response generation.
Comparison with SoTA RAG Methods.In Table 2, we provide a comprehensive comparison of
Vgent against state-of-the-art RAG methods on MLVU [57] and VideoMME [13] benchmarks.
(1) Our framework consistently outperforms the RAG baseline, Video-RAG [ 33], across three
different LVLM base models. Unlike Video-RAG [33], which relies on CLIP [41]-based keyframe
selection and external tools such as object detection and OCR for frame-level information extraction,
Vgent eliminates these dependencies by leveraging LVLMs themselves for graph construction,
verification, and intermediate reasoning. This structured approach significantly enhances retrieval
precision and reasoning accuracy, leading to more reliable final responses.
(2) Our framework also surpasses proprietary RAG-based methods for long-video understanding.
Compared to closed-source API-dependent methods which heavily rely on closed-source APIs, our
framework is more flexible and effective solution for long-video understanding.
7
Table 2:RAG methods comparison.† denotes results are sourced from [ 34]. Proprietary LVLMs
refer to methods that rely on closed-source APIs. We include them here for reference only, as our
primary focus is on building a self-contained pipeline to improve open-source LVLMs.
Models Size MLVU VideoMME
w/o sub. w/ sub.
Proprietary LVLMs
VideoAgent † [47] - - - 44.4
LLoVi † [52] - - - 67.7
DrVideo † [34] - - - 71.7
Open-Source LVLMs
Qwen2.5-VL + Video-RAG [33] 3B 62.2 60.3 65.1
Qwen2.5-VL + Vgent (Ours) 3B 70.4 63.0 69.6
LLaV A-Video + Video-RAG [33] 7B 71.3 64.8 70.0
LLaV A-Video + Vgent (Ours) 7B72.566.7 71.1
Qwen2.5-VL + Video-RAG [33] 7B 63.4 60.5 65.7
Qwen2.5-VL + Vgent (Ours) 7B 72.1 68.9 74.3
Table 3:Ablation study resultsof the performance improvement contributed by each component of
our proposed pipeline. SR denotes our proposed structured reasoning.
Models MLVU VideoMME LongVideoBench
Qwen2.5-VL [4] 68.8 71.1 56.0
Qwen2.5-VL + NaïveRAG 65.4 68.3 56.2
Qwen2.5-VL + GraphRAG 69.5 72.7 57.1
Qwen2.5-VL + NaïveRAG + SR 68.6 69.8 57.3
Qwen2.5-VL + GraphRAG + SR (default) 72.1 74.3 59.7
4.3 Ablation Studies
NaïveRAG vs GraphRAG.As shown in Table 3, integrating GraphRAG yields an average im-
provement of 2.9% over NaïveRAG, with a particularly notable 4.1% gain on MLVU [57]. This is
because NaïveRAG’s difficulty in handling complex queries that requires temporal reasoning across
multiple clips, as it treats each video clip as an independent document. In contrast, our GraphRAG
effectively preserves semantic relationships between clips, enabling more accurate retrieval and
reasoning. By structuring video content into a graph representation, our approach addresses retrieval
inconsistencies inherent in traditional RAG methods.
However, the improvement remains marginal compared to the base models. Upon checking failure
cases in MLVU, we observe that in 44% of the failures, the correct clip is actually present within the
model’s retrieved set, which indicates that while the retrieval was successful, irrelevant retrievals still
distract the model, hindering accurate responses. Consequently, a post-retrieval stage is necessary
to amplify the potential of our GraphRAG by refining the retrieved nodes and improving reasoning
towards more precise answers.
Structured Reasoning (SR).By refining retrieved nodes through intermediate reasoning with
structured queries, we achieve an additional 2.6% improvement on MLVU [ 57] and 1.6% on
VideoMME [13], resulting in an overall 3.4% average gain over the base model. This interme-
8
diate reasoning step decomposes complex queries into targeted sub-questions and generates binary
or numerical answers. These structured response are then used to systematically filter out irrelevant
clips and aggregate relevant information across clips, guiding the model toward the correct final
answer. Our findings also indicate that the final improvement is contingent upon Graph-based RAG.
Specifically, if SR is applied to NaïveRAG, the inherent inaccuracy of NaïveRAG’s retrievals restricts
the potential for significant improvement through refinement alone.
Number of retrieval r We conduct an ablation study to examine the impact of the number of
retrieved clips after structured query refinement. Table 4 presents both the overall performance and
results across several MLVU [57] subcategories. Among these, Count and Order are two tasks that
heavily require reasoning across multiple video clips. Count involves identifying the number of
events or actions throughout an entire video, while Order requires the model to arrange multiple
events in chronological sequence. r represents the maximum number of video clips retained after
refinement. Our findings indicate that increasing the number of retrieved clips consistently improves
performance, particularly for tasks demanding multi-clip reasoning, with the highest performance
observed atr= 5.
Table 4: The number of retrieved clips impacts performance on MLVU [57].
#Retrieval Count Ego Needle Order PlotQA Anomaly Topic Overall
r=1 25.7 54.2 75.7 51.7 67.4 71.0 84.3 63.2
r=2 40.2 55.6 78.0 57.1 69.1 73.5 87.0 66.9
r=3 47.5 57.1 78.0 61.0 70.0 71.5 87.2 68.4
r=4 58.7 56.6 78.8 65.2 73.6 72.5 87.6 71.0
r=5 (default) 58.7 59.5 79.7 67.1 74.6 74.0 88.0 72.1
r=6 58.7 58.4 78.8 67.2 73.9 73.5 87.4 71.9
Further details, including category-level performance on MLVU (A.1), limitations (D), ablation
studies on the number of retrievals N (A.5), confidence-based refinement (A.2), retrieval threshold τ
(A.6) are provided in the Appendix.
Table 5:Inference time analysis.Since processing time depends on the video duration, we report
the normalized time required to process each minute of video.
Model / Time (sec) Query Independent
(offline)
Query Dependent
(online)
#Proprietary LVLMs
VideoAgent [47] N/A 67.25
#Open-Source LVLMs
Qwen2.5VL-7B [4] N/A 2.95
+Video-RAG [33] N/A 20.81
+ Vgent (Ours) 20.13 3.93
4.4 Inference Time Analysis
We analyze the computational trade-offs and report the processing times in Table 5 for the API-
based method VideoAgent [47], Video-RAG [33] as well as our framework built on Qwen2.5VL [4].
VideoAgent [47] leverages a proprietary LLM (GPT-4 [36]) to iteratively perform self-reflection for
frame selection and aggregating key information from the video. Video-RAG [33] relies on query-
dependent key frame selection and per-frame object detection, introducing online computational
overhead. In contrast, our framework can offline constructs a query-independent graph from the video,
which takes 20.13 seconds. Once the graph is built, the online retrieval, reasoning and generation
process requires only 3.93 seconds per minute-video.
Our offline graph construction further improves efficiency in multi-question scenarios (e.g., three
questions per video in VideoMME [13]). Unlike query-dependent methods that reprocess the entire
9
Question: Did I open the laptop?A. Maybe   B. No   C. I don’t know   D. Yes
Q1: Is there a laptop shown in the video?Q2: Is someone visible interacting with the laptop in the video?Q3: Does the video show the laptop opened?
Reasoning A laptop is shown in the video as not opened, and someone is interacting with it. Then, the laptop is shown opened.
Graph-based Clip Retrieval[5,6,7,9,11] Answer: B. No
Answer: D. Yes
01234567891011
laptopwatch
......
monitorbed
Clip 4Clip 5Clip 6Clip 7Clip 8Clip 9Clip 10Clip 11.........Video Graph Construction
Strutured Queries
GraphRAG w/o reasoning
GraphRAG with reasoning
Figure 3: A qualitative example illustrates our graph-based retrieval-reasoning approach, which
connects relevant video clips via shared entities. While the model initially fails to correctly identify
the action of opening the laptop, misled by hallucinations from hard negatives. However, adding an
intermediate reasoning step that validates each retrieved node through structured subqueries enables
the model to generate the accurate response.
video for each question, our approach constructs the graph once, allowing the model to retrieve
relevant clips based on entity descriptions—without the need to rewatch the entire video. As a
result, our method achieves a 1.73× speedup over Video-RAG [33] when performing inference on
VideoMME [13].
4.5 Qualitative Examples
We show a qualitative example in Figure 3, 5 and 6. Our graph construction effectively connects
relevant video clips through shared entities. In Figure 3 the graph-based retrieval system can identify
relevant nodes that contains a laptop, with Clip 6 providing crucial evidence to answer the query.
However, the model incorrectly responded “No" to the question “Did I open the laptop?", presumably
due to hard negatives from multiple clips featuring a opened laptop, hallucinating the model to
overlook the closed laptop and the action of opening it.
In contrast, with an intermediate reasoning step, we validate each retrieved node with structured
subqueries (e.g., “Is there a laptop open?" “Is someone interacting with the laptop?"). This verified
information is aggregated to form an enhanced reasoning chain, allowing the model to correctly infer
that the laptop was opened, overcoming the distraction from hard negatives.
5 Conclusion
In this work, we introduced a novel graph-based Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework
designed for long-video understanding. Our approach represents video clips as nodes in a graph
and leverages entities to maintain semantic relationships, thereby enhancing retrieval effectiveness.
To address retrieval noise, we proposed a structured query refinement strategy that systematically
filters out irrelevant clips, ensuring a more precise selection of relevant video content. Additionally,
we introduced an intermediate reasoning step that summarizes the response to the structured query,
using the filtered retrieved clips as multimodal context to significantly improve the accuracy of the
final answer generation. Our framework outperforms state-of-the-art video RAG methods by 8.6%,
demonstrating its effectiveness in enhancing long-video understanding tasks. This work paves the
way for more accurate and context-aware long-form video retrieval and reasoning systems.
10
References
[1] Md Adnan Arefeen, Biplob Debnath, Md Yusuf Sarwar Uddin, and Srimat Chakradhar. irag: Advancing
rag for videos with an incremental approach. InProceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on
Information and Knowledge Management, pages 4341–4348, 2024.
[2] Kirolos Ataallah, Xiaoqian Shen, Eslam Abdelrahman, Essam Sleiman, Deyao Zhu, Jian Ding, and
Mohamed Elhoseiny. Minigpt4-video: Advancing multimodal llms for video understanding with interleaved
visual-textual tokens.arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.03413, 2024.
[3] Kirolos Ataallah, Xiaoqian Shen, Eslam Abdelrahman, Essam Sleiman, Mingchen Zhuge, Jian Ding,
Deyao Zhu, Jürgen Schmidhuber, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Goldfish: Vision-language understanding of
arbitrarily long videos.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.12679, 2024.
[4] Shuai Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Jialin Wang, Wenbin Ge, Sibo Song, Kai Dang, Peng Wang, Shijie
Wang, Jun Tang, et al. Qwen2. 5-vl technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.13923, 2025.
[5] Chi-Min Chan, Chunpu Xu, Ruibin Yuan, Hongyin Luo, Wei Xue, Yike Guo, and Jie Fu. Rq-rag: Learning
to refine queries for retrieval augmented generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00610, 2024.
[6] Jun Chen, Deyao Zhu, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, Zechun Liu, Pengchuan Zhang, Raghuraman Krish-
namoorthi, Vikas Chandra, Yunyang Xiong, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Minigpt-v2: large language model
as a unified interface for vision-language multi-task learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.09478, 2023.
[7] Lin Chen, Xilin Wei, Jinsong Li, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Zehui Chen, Haodong Duan,
Bin Lin, Zhenyu Tang, et al. Sharegpt4video: Improving video understanding and generation with better
captions.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04325, 2024.
[8] Zhe Chen, Weiyun Wang, Yue Cao, Yangzhou Liu, Zhangwei Gao, Erfei Cui, Jinguo Zhu, Shenglong Ye,
Hao Tian, Zhaoyang Liu, et al. Expanding performance boundaries of open-source multimodal models
with model, data, and test-time scaling.arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.05271, 2024.
[9] Zesen Cheng, Sicong Leng, Hang Zhang, Yifei Xin, Xin Li, Guanzheng Chen, Yongxin Zhu, Wenqi
Zhang, Ziyang Luo, Deli Zhao, et al. Videollama 2: Advancing spatial-temporal modeling and audio
understanding in video-llms.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07476, 2024.
[10] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidi-
rectional transformers for language understanding. InProceedings of the 2019 conference of the North
American chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language technologies, volume
1 (long and short papers), pages 4171–4186, 2019.
[11] Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt, and
Jonathan Larson. From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-focused summarization.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.16130, 2024.
[12] Yue Fan, Xiaojian Ma, Rujie Wu, Yuntao Du, Jiaqi Li, Zhi Gao, and Qing Li. Videoagent: A memory-
augmented multimodal agent for video understanding.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.11481, 2024.
[13] Chaoyou Fu, Yuhan Dai, Yondong Luo, Lei Li, Shuhuai Ren, Renrui Zhang, Zihan Wang, Chenyu Zhou,
Yunhang Shen, Mengdan Zhang, et al. Video-mme: The first-ever comprehensive evaluation benchmark of
multi-modal llms in video analysis.arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.21075, 2024.
[14] Peng Gao, Jiaming Han, Renrui Zhang, Ziyi Lin, Shijie Geng, Aojun Zhou, W. Zhang, Pan Lu, Conghui He,
Xiangyu Yue, Hongsheng Li, and Yu Jiao Qiao. Llama-adapter v2: Parameter-efficient visual instruction
model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.15010, 2023.
[15] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Haofen Wang,
and Haofen Wang. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.10997, 2, 2023.
[16] Gemini Team Google. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of
context.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530, 2024.
[17] Zirui Guo, Lianghao Xia, Yanhua Yu, Tu Ao, and Chao Huang. Lightrag: Simple and fast retrieval-
augmented generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05779, 2024.
[18] Haoyu Han, Yu Wang, Harry Shomer, Kai Guo, Jiayuan Ding, Yongjia Lei, Mahantesh Halappanavar,
Ryan A Rossi, Subhabrata Mukherjee, Xianfeng Tang, et al. Retrieval-augmented generation with graphs
(graphrag).arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.00309, 2024.
11
[19] Bo He, Hengduo Li, Young Kyun Jang, Menglin Jia, Xuefei Cao, Ashish Shah, Abhinav Shrivastava, and
Ser-Nam Lim. Ma-lmm: Memory-augmented large multimodal model for long-term video understanding.
InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 13504–
13514, 2024.
[20] Noureldien Hussein, Efstratios Gavves, and Arnold WM Smeulders. Videograph: Recognizing minutes-
long human activities in videos.arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.05143, 2019.
[21] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich
Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
intensive nlp tasks.Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:9459–9474, 2020.
[22] Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Dong Guo, Renrui Zhang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Yanwei Li, Ziwei
Liu, and Chunyuan Li. Llava-onevision: Easy visual task transfer.arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03326, 2024.
[23] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi. Blip-2: Bootstrapping language-image pre-training
with frozen image encoders and large language models. InInternational conference on machine learning,
pages 19730–19742. PMLR, 2023.
[24] KunChang Li, Yinan He, Yi Wang, Yizhuo Li, Wenhai Wang, Ping Luo, Yali Wang, Limin Wang, and Yu
Qiao. Videochat: Chat-centric video understanding.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06355, 2023.
[25] Kunchang Li, Yali Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Yi Wang, Yi Liu, Zun Wang, Jilan Xu, Guo Chen, Ping
Luo, et al. Mvbench: A comprehensive multi-modal video understanding benchmark. InProceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 22195–22206, 2024.
[26] Mufei Li, Siqi Miao, and Pan Li. Simple is effective: The roles of graphs and large language models in
knowledge-graph-based retrieval-augmented generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.20724, 2024.
[27] Yanwei Li, Chengyao Wang, and Jiaya Jia. Llama-vid: An image is worth 2 tokens in large language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17043, 2023.
[28] Bin Lin, Bin Zhu, Yang Ye, Munan Ning, Peng Jin, and Li Yuan. Video-llava: Learning united visual
representation by alignment before projection.arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.10122, 2023.
[29] Kevin Lin, Faisal Ahmed, Linjie Li, Chung-Ching Lin, Ehsan Azarnasab, Zhengyuan Yang, Jianfeng Wang,
Lin Liang, Zicheng Liu, Yumao Lu, et al. Mm-vid: Advancing video understanding with gpt-4v (ision).
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.19773, 2023.
[30] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Sheng Shen, and Yong Jae Lee. Llava-next:
Improved reasoning, ocr, and world knowledge, 2024.
[31] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning.Advances in neural
information processing systems, 36, 2024.
[32] Ruipu Luo, Ziwang Zhao, Min Yang, Junwei Dong, Minghui Qiu, Pengcheng Lu, Tao Wang, and Zhongyu
Wei. Valley: Video assistant with large language model enhanced ability.arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.07207,
2023.
[33] Yongdong Luo, Xiawu Zheng, Xiao Yang, Guilin Li, Haojia Lin, Jinfa Huang, Jiayi Ji, Fei Chao, Jiebo
Luo, and Rongrong Ji. Video-rag: Visually-aligned retrieval-augmented long video comprehension.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2411.13093, 2024.
[34] Ziyu Ma, Chenhui Gou, Hengcan Shi, Bin Sun, Shutao Li, Hamid Rezatofighi, and Jianfei Cai. Drvideo:
Document retrieval based long video understanding.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.12846, 2024.
[35] Muhammad Maaz, Hanoona Rasheed, Salman Khan, and Fahad Shahbaz Khan. Video-chatgpt: Towards
detailed video understanding via large vision and language models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.05424,
2023.
[36] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2023.
[37] OpenAI. Gpt-4v(ision) system card, 2023.
[38] OpenAI. Gpt-4o system card, 2024.
[39] Team OpenGVLab. Internvl2: Better than the best—expanding performance boundaries of open-source
multimodal models with the progressive scaling strategy, 2024.
12
[40] Team Qwen. Qwen2 technical report, 2024.
[41] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish
Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual models from
natural language supervision. InInternational conference on machine learning, pages 8748–8763, 2021.
[42] Xubin Ren, Lingrui Xu, Long Xia, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, and Chao Huang. Videorag: Retrieval-
augmented generation with extreme long-context videos.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.01549, 2025.
[43] Xiaoqian Shen, Yunyang Xiong, Changsheng Zhao, Lemeng Wu, Jun Chen, Chenchen Zhu, Zechun
Liu, Fanyi Xiao, Balakrishnan Varadarajan, Florian Bordes, et al. Longvu: Spatiotemporal adaptive
compression for long video-language understanding.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.17434, 2024.
[44] Enxin Song, Wenhao Chai, Guanhong Wang, Yucheng Zhang, Haoyang Zhou, Feiyang Wu, Xun Guo,
Tian Ye, Yan Lu, Jenq-Neng Hwang, et al. Moviechat: From dense token to sparse memory for long video
understanding.arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.16449, 2023.
[45] Shengbang Tong, Ellis Brown, Penghao Wu, Sanghyun Woo, Manoj Middepogu, Sai Charitha Akula,
Jihan Yang, Shusheng Yang, Adithya Iyer, Xichen Pan, et al. Cambrian-1: A fully open, vision-centric
exploration of multimodal llms.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.16860, 2024.
[46] Peng Wang, Shuai Bai, Sinan Tan, Shijie Wang, Zhihao Fan, Jinze Bai, Keqin Chen, Xuejing Liu, Jialin
Wang, Wenbin Ge, et al. Qwen2-vl: Enhancing vision-language model’s perception of the world at any
resolution.arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12191, 2024.
[47] Xiaohan Wang, Yuhui Zhang, Orr Zohar, and Serena Yeung-Levy. Videoagent: Long-form video under-
standing with large language model as agent.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.10517, 2024.
[48] Yang Wang, Gedas Bertasius, Tae-Hyun Oh, Abhinav Gupta, Minh Hoai, and Lorenzo Torresani. Super-
voxel attention graphs for long-range video modeling. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference
on Applications of Computer Vision, pages 155–166, 2021.
[49] Ziyang Wang, Shoubin Yu, Elias Stengel-Eskin, Jaehong Yoon, Feng Cheng, Gedas Bertasius, and Mohit
Bansal. Videotree: Adaptive tree-based video representation for llm reasoning on long videos.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2405.19209, 2024.
[50] Haoning Wu, Dongxu Li, Bei Chen, and Junnan Li. Longvideobench: A benchmark for long-context
interleaved video-language understanding.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:
28828–28857, 2025.
[51] Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Peitian Zhang, and Niklas Muennighoff. C-pack: Packaged resources to advance
general chinese embedding, 2023.
[52] Ce Zhang, Taixi Lu, Md Mohaiminul Islam, Ziyang Wang, Shoubin Yu, Mohit Bansal, and Gedas Bertasius.
A simple llm framework for long-range video question-answering.arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.17235, 2023.
[53] Lu Zhang, Tiancheng Zhao, Heting Ying, Yibo Ma, and Kyusong Lee. Omagent: A multi-modal
agent framework for complex video understanding with task divide-and-conquer.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.16620, 2024.
[54] Peiyuan Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Bo Li, Guangtao Zeng, Jingkang Yang, Yuanhan Zhang, Ziyue Wang,
Haoran Tan, Chunyuan Li, and Ziwei Liu. Long context transfer from language to vision.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.16852, 2024.
[55] Yuanhan Zhang, Bo Li, haotian Liu, Yong jae Lee, Liangke Gui, Di Fu, Jiashi Feng, Ziwei Liu, and
Chunyuan Li. Llava-next: A strong zero-shot video understanding model, 2024.
[56] Yuanhan Zhang, Jinming Wu, Wei Li, Bo Li, Zejun Ma, Ziwei Liu, and Chunyuan Li. Video instruction
tuning with synthetic data.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02713, 2024.
[57] Junjie Zhou, Yan Shu, Bo Zhao, Boya Wu, Shitao Xiao, Xi Yang, Yongping Xiong, Bo Zhang, Tiejun
Huang, and Zheng Liu. Mlvu: A comprehensive benchmark for multi-task long video understanding.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.04264, 2024.
[58] Deyao Zhu, Jun Chen, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Minigpt-4: Enhancing
vision-language understanding with advanced large language models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.10592,
2023.
13
NeurIPS Paper Checklist
1.Claims
Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
made in the paper.
• The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
NA answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
• The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings.
• It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
are not attained by the paper.
2.Limitations
Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The paper discussed the limitations of the work in Appendix D.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
• The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
• The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
model well-specification, asymptotic approximations only holding locally). The authors
should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
implications would be.
• The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
• The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
technical jargon.
• The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
and how they scale with dataset size.
• If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
address problems of privacy and fairness.
• While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an impor-
tant role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
3.Theory assumptions and proofs
Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
a complete (and correct) proof?
Answer: [NA]
14
Justification: The paper does not contain theoretical results.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
• All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and cross-
referenced.
• All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
• The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
proof sketch to provide intuition.
• Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
• Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.
4.Experimental result reproducibility
Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main ex-
perimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The paper disclosed all the information needed to reproduce the main experi-
mental results.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
whether the code and data are provided or not.
• If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
• Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
appropriate to the research performed.
• While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submis-
sions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
nature of the contribution. For example
(a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
to reproduce that algorithm.
(b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
the architecture clearly and fully.
(c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
the dataset).
(d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
5.Open access to data and code
Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
material?
15
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The paper provided open access to the data and code, with sufficient instruc-
tions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
• Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines ( https://nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).
• The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
• The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
• At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).
• Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
6.Experimental setting/details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The paper specified all the training and test details.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
• The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.
7.Experiment statistical significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: [No]
Justification: While we fixed the random seed to ensure experimental stability and repro-
ducibility, we did not report error bars or conduct statistical significance testing.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.
• The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).
• The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)
• The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
16
• It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.
• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8.Experiments compute resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The paper provided sufficient information on the computer resources needed
to reproduce the experiments.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
9.Code of ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethicshttps://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The research is conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid-
eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10.Broader impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: There is no societal impact of the work performed
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
17
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out
that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train
models that generate Deepfakes faster.
• The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is
being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the
technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following
from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology.
• If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation
strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks,
mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from
feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML).
11.Safeguards
Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible
release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pretrained language models,
image generators, or scraped datasets)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper poses no such risks.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper poses no such risks.
• Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
safety filters.
• Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
• We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
faith effort.
12.Licenses for existing assets
Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
properly respected?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The models used in the paper are properly credited.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.
• The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
• The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
URL.
• The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
• For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
service of that source should be provided.
• If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the
package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets
has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the
license of a dataset.
• For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
18
• If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
the asset’s creators.
13.New assets
Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
provided alongside the assets?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not release new assets.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
• Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
limitations, etc.
• The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
asset is used.
• At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
14.Crowdsourcing and research with human subjects
Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
well as details about compensation (if any)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribu-
tion of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
included in the main paper.
• According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
collector.
15. Institutional review board (IRB) approvals or equivalent for research with human
subjects
Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
institution) were obtained?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with human subjects.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
should clearly state this in the paper.
• We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
guidelines for their institution.
• For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.
16.Declaration of LLM usage
19
Question: Does the paper describe the usage of LLMs if it is an important, original, or
non-standard component of the core methods in this research? Note that if the LLM is used
only for writing, editing, or formatting purposes and does not impact the core methodology,
scientific rigorousness, or originality of the research, declaration is not required.
Answer: [NA]
Justification: The core method development in this research does not involve LLMs.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the core method development in this research does not
involve LLMs as any important, original, or non-standard components.
• Please refer to our LLM policy ( https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2025/LLM)
for what should or should not be described.
20
A Experiments
A.1 Category-level performance on MLVU
Table 6 shows performance on the multiple-choice task of MLVU [ 57]. Our framework consis-
tently improves all models, enhancing LongVU by 5.4% and Qwen2.5VL (7B) by 3.3%. Notably,
Vgent achieves 70.4% accuracy on Qwen2.5VL (3B), surpassing its 7B counterpart and improving
the base model by 4.2%. Significant gains are observed in Count and Order tasks, highlighting the
effectiveness of our approach in cross-segment reasoning and long-video understanding.
Table 6:Category-level performance on MLVU[ 57]. Our framework consistently improves all
models, enhancing LongVU by 5.4% and Qwen2.5VL (7B) by 3.3%. Notably, Vgent achieves
70.4% accuracy on Qwen2.5VL (3B), surpassing its 7B counterpart and improving the base model by
4.2%. Significant gains are observed in Count and Order tasks, highlighting the effectiveness of our
approach in cross-segment reasoning and long-video understanding.
Model Size Count Ego Needle Order PlotQA Anomaly Topic Overall
Proprietary LVLMs
GPT-4o - 46.3 57.1 64.8 56.7 65.1 74.5 87.4 64.6
Open-Source LVLMs
InternVL2.5 [8] 2B 34.9 50.4 61.6 34.7 62.8 61.5 81.5 56.7
InternVL2.5 + Vgent (Ours)2B 59.2 53.1 66.7 38.2 63.9 62.0 81.1 61.1+4.4
Qwen2-VL [46] 2B 30.1 56.0 72.3 32.8 65.3 55.5 80.4 58.6
Qwen2-VL + Vgent (Ours) 2B 58.7 57.6 76.9 34.3 63.8 59.5 80.3 62.5+3.9
Qwen2.5-VL [4] 3B 36.4 53.0 77.7 55.5 70.1 75.5 86.4 66.2
Qwen2.5-VL + Vgent (Ours)3B 60.1 58.1 78.5 61.7 70.5 74.5 87.3 70.4+4.2
LongVU [54] 7B 28.9 59.3 76.3 58.3 71.6 76.0 87.5 65.4
LongVU + Vgent (Ours) 7B 60.0 62.3 76.5 60.1 71.6 76.4 87.8 70.8+5.4
Qwen2-VL [46] 7B 32.5 62.0 79.1 53.2 69.6 63.0 85.3 65.7
Qwen2-VL + Vgent (Ours) 7B 60.2 65.8 80.2 60.2 70.6 63.5 86.1 70.3+4.6
LLaV A-Video [56] 7B 42.2 61.5 76.3 61.0 75.8 72.0 85.3 69.5
LLaV A-Video + Vgent (Ours)7B 58.7 63.0 76.9 67.1 76.4 72.5 86.9 72.5+3.0
Qwen2.5-VL [4] 7B 41.7 58.1 78.0 61.0 73.6 72.5 87.4 68.8
Qwen2.5-VL + Vgent (Ours)7B 58.7 59.5 79.7 67.1 74.6 74.0 88.1 72.1+3.3
A.2 Confidence-based Refinement
A straightforward solution is to filter out the hard negative retrievals by their relevance scores. Initially,
we experimented with confidence-based refinement, as used in VideoAgent [47], where the model
self-reflect the relevance of retrieved nodes. However, this approach proved ineffective in our case, as
the confidence score failed to reliably reflect video clip relevance, leading to an average improvement
of only 0.2%, as shown in Table 7.
Table 7:Ablation study resultsof the performance improvement contributed by each component of
our proposed pipeline. CR denotes confidence-based reasoning and SR is our proposed structured
reasoning.
Models MLVU VideoMME LongVideoBench
Qwen2.5-VL [4] 68.8 71.1 56.0
Qwen2.5-VL + GraphRAG + CR 69.5 72.9 57.5
Qwen2.5-VL + GraphRAG + SR (default)72.1 74.3 59.7
21
A.3 Baseline Details
NaïveRAG:Following GoldFish [ 3], we construct a NaïveRAG baseline for video understanding by
representing each video clip as plain text and retrieving relevant clips based on similarity to the query.
Video-RAG:[ 33]: This method selects keyframes by evaluating CLIP similarity between each
frame’s features and the text embeddings of keywords extracted from the question. Additionally,
an object detection model and an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) model are applied to each
keyframe to extract detailed information.
Proprietary LLM-based:VideoAgent [ 47], LLoVi [52], DrVideo [34] and VideoTree [49] utilizes
interactive reasoning and planning of proprietary LLM APIs to enhance long-video understanding.
A.4 Retrieval Embedding
We explore different types of retrieval embeddings, i.e., CLIP [41], BERT [10] and BGE [51] on
VideoMME [13] benchmark with Qwen2.5-VL [4] backbone, as shown in Figure 4 (left).
A.5 Number of RetrievalN
We conduct ablation on the number of retrieval N before structured reasoning (SR) on
VideoMME [13] benchmark with Qwen2.5-VL [4] backbone, as shown in Figure 4 (middle). We set
N= 20by default.
A.6 Retrieval Thresholdτ
We investigate retrieval thresholdτ on VideoMME [13] benchmark with Qwen2.5-VL [4] backbone,
as shown in Figure 4 (right). As the value of τ increases, less video clips are retrieved based on
similarity scores, potentially leading to the loss of relevant information. We setτ= 0.5by default.
A.7 Qualitative Results
We show a qualitative example in Figure 3, 5 and 6. Our graph construction effectively connects
relevant video clips through shared entities. In Figure 3 the graph-based retrieval system can identify
relevant nodes that contains a laptop, with Clip 6 providing crucial evidence to answer the query.
However, the model incorrectly responded “No" to the question “Did I open the laptop?", presumably
due to hard negatives from multiple clips featuring a opened laptop, hallucinating the model to
overlook the closed laptop and the action of opening it.
In contrast, with an intermediate reasoning step, we validate each retrieved node with structured
subqueries (e.g., “Is there a laptop open?" “Is someone interacting with the laptop?"). This verified
information is aggregated to form an enhanced reasoning chain, allowing the model to correctly infer
that the laptop was opened, overcoming the distraction from hard negatives.
Retrieval EmbeddingTop𝑁RetrievalRetrieval Threshold 𝜏
Figure 4: Ablation studies.Left: retrieval embedding.Middle: number of retrieval N before SR.
Right: ablation on retrieval thresholdτ.
22
Question: Arrange the following events from the video in the correct chronological order: (1) The man attempts to walk across the rope but falls and holds onto the rope; (2) A seal sits on a rock near an ocean; (3) The man films from a beach cliff next to a tent; (4) The man walks across the rope all the way to the attached rock.
Q1: Does the man attempts to walk across the rope but falls and holds onto the rope?Q2: Is there a seal sitting on a rock near an ocean' shown in video?Q3: Does the man film from a beach cliff next to a tent?Q4: Does the man walk across the rope all the way to the attached rock?
Reasoning A seal sitting by the ocean is an initial scene. There is a man attempting to walk across the rope, who then falls, holds onto it and arrives the rock. Then the man filming from a beach cliff.
Graph-based Clip Retrieval[0,2,3,4,6]
Answer: 2->1->4->3
01234567891011
rockseal
......
ropeman
Clip 0Clip 1Clip 2Clip 3Clip 4Clip 5Clip 6Clip 7.........Video Graph Construction
Strutured Queries
GraphRAG w/o reasoning
GraphRAG with reasoning
Answer: 2->4->1->3
ClipQ1Q2Q3Q402346
tent
Figure 5: A qualitative example illustrates our graph-based retrieval-reasoning approach.
Question: In this video, how many instances are there of the 'cooking sausages' action scene in total?
Q1: Is there cooking sausages in the video?Reasoning The video shows instances of cooking sausages in two segments.
Graph-based Clip Retrieval[2,4,9,10]
Answer: 2
1234567891011
mandeer
......
pantree
Clip 1Clip 2Clip 3Clip 4Clip 5Clip 9Clip 10Clip 11.........Video Graph Construction
Strutured Queries
GraphRAG w/o reasoning
GraphRAG with reasoning
Answer: 3
ClipQ1241112
sausage
Figure 6: A qualitative example illustrates our graph-based retrieval-reasoning approach.
B Prompts
B.1 Visual Entity Extraction
Figure 7 illustrates the prompts used to describe entities, actions, and scenes given a video segment
for the LVLM.
B.2 Keyword Extraction
Figure 8 presents the prompt designed for the LVLM to perform task identification and extract
keywords from the original question to facilitate retrieval.
B.3 Subqueries Generation
Figure 9 presents the prompt designed for the LVLM to generate structured subqueries for retrieved
nodes refinement.
23
Prompt: Describe entities, actions, scenes.
Please analyze the given video and extract key information in a structured JSON format in
English. Identify and describe:
Entities:List all distinct objects, people, animals, or other significant elements present in the
video.
Actions:If the entities are interacting, describe their actions and relationships in a structured
manner.
Scenes:Identify and describe the locations, environments, or contexts where the events occur.
If the video is filmed from a first-person point of view, please also describe "subject" as "me"
and actions or interactions from this person.
Ensure the output strictly follows the JSON format below:
{ “entities”: [“entity name”: “”, “description”: “”], “actions”: [“entity name”: “action
description”], “scenes”: [“location”: “”] }
The “entity name” in actions should belong to “entity name” in entities.
Each section should be detailed but concise, capturing all relevant interactions and contextual
elements from the video. Avoid unnecessary text outside the JSON output.
Figure 7: Prompt for video segment description.
Prompt: Task Identification and Keyword Extraction.
Given a question of a long video and potential candidates:
Question:{query}
Candidates:{candidates}
You need to retrieve the relevant video segments to answer the question. Note that you do
not need to see the video. But based on the question please think step by step what are the
important things for retrieval.
[keywords] Please identify the information, like entities, scene, action from the question that
is important to retrieve the segments for further answer the question. Do not include the
candidates in the keywords.
[candidates_necessary] Do you think the information in the candidates is necessary for
retrieval? Answer yes or no.
[multiple] Do you think it needs to aggregate the information from multiple segments to
answer the question? ONLY answer yes or no.
[time] Please identify if it can tell the question is asking which part of the video. Answer
begin, end or none.
[tool] Do you think it needs additional step for answering the question, please select from
[object counting, action counting, order, none].
[global] Can this question be answered based on the overall understanding of the whole
video? (e.g., “What is the main topic of the video?” or “What is the main content of the
video?”)
Please output the final answer in json format, for example:
{“multiple": “no", “keywords": [“man in black"], “time": "begin", “tool": none, “candi-
dates_necessary": “yes", “global": “yes"}
Figure 8: Prompt for task identification and keywords extraction.
24
Prompt: Subqueries Generation.
Given a question of a long video and potential candidates:
Question:{query}
Candidates:{candidates}
Given a multiple-choice question about a video, break it down into several sub-questions that
analyze the key elements required to answer it step by step.
First, identify the key subject or event in the question (e.g., an object, an animal, an action, or
a location). Form yes/no or counting questions to verify the presence of the subject or event
in the video (e.g., "Does the video show [subject/event]?"). Ensure the sub-questions cover
all necessary aspects to reach the correct answer.
==important== Please give me the answer in JSON format. Do not include references to
specific time positions in the video when generating questions (e.g., "at the beginning," "in
the middle," or "at the end") Do not go through all the numbers in the candidates for counting
quesitons.
Figure 9: Prompt for subqueries generation.
C Model Output Examples
C.1 Visual Entity Extraction
{
" idx " : 0 ,
" info " : {
" entities " : [
{
" entity name " : " sailboat " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " A classic sailboat with white sails
and wooden rigging "
} ,
{
" entity name " : " man " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " A man wearing a dark sweater "
} ,
{
" entity name " : " ocean " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " A calm ocean under a partly cloudy sky
"
}
] ,
" actions " : [
{
" entity name " : " sailboat " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " sailing smoothly on the water "
} ,
{
" entity name " : " man " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " steering the sailboat "
} ,
{
" entity name " : " man " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " looking around "
} ,
{
" entity name " : " man " ,
" d e s c r i p t i o n " : " a dju st in g his hair "
}
] ,
" scenes " : [
{
25
" location " : " open sea "
}
]
}
D Limitation
In this work, we represent video content using textual descriptions—such as entities and their
associated details—as a lightweight and efficient alternative to raw visual features. However, we
do not incorporate visual embeddings or frame-level features into our graph. While computing
similarity across frames can be computationally intensive, it remains a promising direction for future
improvement.
Additionally, our framework is model-agnostic and compatible with any LVLM, meaning its per-
formance is inherently bounded by the capabilities of the base LVLM. As more powerful LVLMs
emerge, our pipeline can be readily adapted to take advantage of their enhanced video understanding
and reasoning abilities.
26